GH-109190: Copyedit 3.12 What's New: Release highlights (#109770)
python/cpython: Doc/whatsnew/3.12.rst

.. This section singles out the most important changes in Python 3.12.
   Brevity is key.

> Python 3.12 is a medium-sized release with a mix of changes

Reviewer: How do we measure the size of releases? Features, PEPs, commits? I'd probably just leave out the size of the release.

Author: It didn't feel small or big! The primary factor though was that the sentence felt empty otherwise "Python 3.12 has a mix of changes to the language and the standard library."

Perhaps: "Python 3.12 is the latest stable release of the Python programming language with a mix of changes to the language and the standard library."?

```suggestion
Python 3.12 is the latest stable release of the Python programming language with a mix of changes
```

Reviewer: Sounds good!

to the language and the standard library.
The library changes focus on cleaning up deprecated APIs, usability, and correctness.
Of note, the :mod:`!distutils` package has been removed from the standard library.
Filesystem support in :mod:`os` and :mod:`pathlib` has seen a number of improvements,
and several modules have better performance.

The language changes focus on usability,
as :term:`f-strings <f-string>` have had many limitations removed
and 'Did you mean ...' suggestions continue to improve.
The new :ref:`type parameter syntax <whatsnew312-pep695>`
and :keyword:`type` statement improve ergonomics for using :term:`generic types

> <generic type>` and :term:`type aliases <type alias>` with static type checkers.

Author: cc @Yhg1s on the high-level overview of the release -- take this as a sketch; I don't know if you'd prefer to focus on other things or just write something completely different!

This article doesn't attempt to provide a complete specification of all new features,

> but instead tries to give a convenient overview.

Reviewer: It succeeds!
```suggestion
but instead gives a convenient overview.
```

Interpreter improvements:

* :ref:`PEP 684 <whatsnew312-pep684>`, a unique per-interpreter :term:`GIL
  <global interpreter lock>`
* :ref:`PEP 669 <whatsnew312-pep669>`, low impact monitoring
* `Improved 'Did you mean ...' suggestions <improved error messages_>`_
  for :exc:`NameError`, :exc:`ImportError`, and :exc:`SyntaxError` exceptions

Python data model improvements:

* :ref:`PEP 688 <whatsnew312-pep688>`, using the :ref:`buffer protocol
  <bufferobjects>` from Python

Significant improvements in the standard library:

* The :class:`pathlib.Path` class now supports subclassing
* The :mod:`os` module received several improvements for Windows support
* A :ref:`command-line interface <sqlite3-cli>` has been added to the
  :mod:`sqlite3` module
* :func:`isinstance` checks against :func:`runtime-checkable protocols
  <typing.runtime_checkable>` enjoy a speed up of between two and 20 times
* A :ref:`command-line interface <uuid-cli>` has been added to the
  :mod:`uuid` module

Security improvements:

* Replace the builtin :mod:`hashlib` implementations of
  SHA1, SHA3, SHA2-384, SHA2-512, and MD5 with formally verified code from the

>   `HACL* <https://github.com/hacl-star/hacl-star/>`__ project.

Author: I went through the changelog for security items, it seemed HACL* was worth noting. I'd welcome suggestions for any other security changes in 3.12 we should note.

cc: @gpshead

Reviewer 2: This makes sense to mention, though it is worth pointing out that when linked against OpenSSL, which we do in our binary releases and most Linux distros do, the OpenSSL implementations of the algorithms are used first when available.

C API improvements:

* :ref:`PEP 697 <whatsnew312-pep697>`, unstable C API tier
* :ref:`PEP 683 <whatsnew312-pep683>`, immortal objects

CPython implementation improvements:

* :ref:`PEP 709 <whatsnew312-pep709>`, comprehension inlining
* :ref:`CPython support <perf_profiling>` for the Linux ``perf`` profiler

> * Implement stack overflow protection on supported platforms

Author: cc: @markshannon -- I thought it was worth noting the stack overflow change (#91079) given there've been a few comments about the change to the recursion limit & C stack, would welcome views.

Also cc @mdboom @Fidget-Spinner @iritkatriel (unsure who else) -- are there any other implementation improvements e.g. from Faster CPython that we should draw out in the release summary?

Author: @iritkatriel -- should we note the 3.12 changes to the compiler/assembler/CFG (e.g. #87092) here under 'CPython implementation improvements'?

variable of the same name in the outer scope, nor are they visible after the
comprehension. Inlining does result in a few visible behavior changes:

* There is no longer a separate frame for the comprehension in tracebacks,
  and tracing/profiling no longer shows the comprehension as a function call.
* The :mod:`symtable` module will no longer produce child symbol tables for each
  comprehension; instead, the comprehension's locals will be included in the
  parent function's symbol table.
* Calling :func:`locals` inside a comprehension now includes variables
  from outside the comprehension, and no longer includes the synthetic ``.0``
  variable for the comprehension "argument".
* A comprehension iterating directly over ``locals()`` (e.g. ``[k for k in
  locals()]``) may see "RuntimeError: dictionary changed size during iteration"
  when run under tracing (e.g. code coverage measurement). This is the same
  behavior already seen in e.g. ``for k in locals():``. To avoid the error, first
  create a list of keys to iterate over: ``keys = list(locals()); [k for k in
  keys]``.

(Contributed by Carl Meyer and Vladimir Matveev in :pep:`709`.)

Improved Error Messages

> -----------------------

Author: Explaining the change here -- I've moved improved errors to a subsection of *New Features* & by moving all the PEPs to the top this drifted down to the bottom--I've no strong view on ordering, if anyone would want to move this.
